#summary zjs.Enum
 * *File:* zjs/core.js
 * *Module:* zjs.core
= Class Enum =

----
<p>This class is the base for all enumerations.</p>
----
== Constructor Summary ==
<table border='1' cellspacing='0' cellpadding='2' width='100%'>
<tr valign='top'>
<td><b>void</b></td>
<td><b>[#ctor ctor]</b> (<b title="The unique ID of this enumerated constant.">id</b>, <b title="The name of this enumerated constant.">name</b>, <b title="The user's (implicitly or explicitly) specified value.">ordinal</b>)<br/>Initializes this object with its essential properties.</td>
</tr>
</table>
----
== Method Summary ==
<table border='1' cellspacing='0' cellpadding='2' width='100%'>
<tr valign='top'>
<td><b>object</b></td>
<td><b>[#equals equals]</b> (<b title="The value to compare to this enum constant.">v</b>)<br/>Compares the given value to this enum constant.</td>
</tr>
<tr valign='top'>
<td><b>object</b></td>
<td><b>[#getFullName getFullName]</b> ()<br/>Returns the full name of this enumerated constant.</td>
</tr>
</table>
----
== Constructor Details ==
=== ctor ===
<code language='js'>void ctor (id, name, ordinal)</code>
<blockquote>
<p>Initializes this object with its essential properties.</p>
<b>Parameters:</b><br/><ol>
<li>id
<p>The unique ID of this enumerated constant.</p>
</li>
<li>name
<p>The name of this enumerated constant.</p>
</li>
<li>ordinal
<p>The user's (implicitly or explicitly) specified value.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</blockquote>
----
== Method Details ==
=== equals ===
<code language='js'>object equals (v)</code>
<blockquote>
<p>Compares the given value to this enum constant. A match may be by exact object instance or equal name or ordinal.</p>
<p>For example:</p>
<code language="js">
    Foo : $enum(["CONST"]),

    ...
    if (Foo.CONST.equals(x)) // x == Foo.CONST, "CONST" or Foo.CONST.ordinal
        ...</code>
<b>Parameters:</b><br/><ol>
<li>v
<p>The value to compare to this enum constant.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<br/><b>Returns:</b><br/><blockquote>
<p>True if equal, false if not.</p>
</blockquote>
</blockquote>
=== getFullName ===
<code language='js'>object getFullName ()</code>
<blockquote>
<p>Returns the full name of this enumerated constant.</p>
<br/><b>Returns:</b><br/><blockquote>
<p>The full name of this enumerated constant.</p>
</blockquote>
</blockquote>