#summary zjs.AjaxSim
 * *File:* zjs/ajaxsim.js
 * *Module:* zjs.ajaxsim
= Class AjaxSim =

----
<p>This class manages a simulated Ajax request.</p>
----
== Constructor Summary ==
<table border='1' cellspacing='0' cellpadding='2' width='100%'>
<tr valign='top'>
<td><b>void</b></td>
<td><b>[#ctor ctor]</b> (<b title="The key(s) to match against request URL's.">key</b>, <b title="The first result data.">res</b>)<br/>Initializes this object given the match criteria and result(s).</td>
</tr>
</table>
----
== Method Summary ==
<table border='1' cellspacing='0' cellpadding='2' width='100%'>
<tr valign='top'>
<td><b>object</b></td>
<td><b>[#getResult getResult]</b> ()<br/>This method provides the results for a simulated Ajax request.</td>
</tr>
<tr valign='top'>
<td><b>object</b></td>
<td><b>[#match match]</b> (<b title="The URL of the request.">url</b>)<br/>This method returns true if the given URL should be simulated by this object.</td>
</tr>
</table>
----
== Constructor Details ==
=== ctor ===
<code language='js'>void ctor (key, res)</code>
<blockquote>
<p>Initializes this object given the match criteria and result(s). At least one result must be provided. If multiple are provided, they will be delivered in a round-robin sequence.</p>
<b>Parameters:</b><br/><ol>
<li>key
<p>The key(s) to match against request URL's. This can be a single string or regex or an array of the same. If request URL matches one of the strings or regex's, it is considered a match and the results held by this object are delivered.</p>
</li>
<li>res
<p>The first result data.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</blockquote>
----
== Method Details ==
=== getResult ===
<code language='js'>object getResult ()</code>
<blockquote>
<p>This method provides the results for a simulated Ajax request. The URL and options are provided and a result object is returned.</p>
<br/><b>Returns:</b><br/><blockquote>
<b>Members:</b><br/><ul>
<li>code
<p>The HTTP status code (e.g., 200).</p>
</li>
<li>message
<p>The HTTP status message (e.g., "OK").</p>
</li>
<li>headers <i>(optional)</i>
<p>The HTTP headers for the response. This is an object with properties for each header.</p>
</li>
<li>responseXML <i>(optional)</i>
<p>The XML response object.</p>
</li>
<li>responseText <i>(optional)</i>
<p>The text response.</p>
</li>
<li>responseObj <i>(optional)</i>
<p>The response data object.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</blockquote>
</blockquote>
=== match ===
<code language='js'>object match (url)</code>
<blockquote>
<p>This method returns true if the given URL should be simulated by this object.</p>
<b>Parameters:</b><br/><ol>
<li>url
<p>The URL of the request.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<br/><b>Returns:</b><br/><blockquote>
<p>True if this object should provide the result, false if not.</p>
</blockquote>
</blockquote>